### How to be a Fig
Daniel H. Janzen
Department of Biology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104

The 900-odd species of Ficus (20, 21) constitute the most distinctive of the widespread genera of tropical plants. Figs have (a) a complex obligatory mutualism with their pollinating agaonid fig wasps, yet are found in almost all tropical habitat types and geographic locations [this sets them apart from antacacias  (63-65), euglossine-orchids  (24,26),  moth-yuccas (45, 88, 89,),ant-epiphytes (66, 98) and ant-fungi (109)];  (b)  fruits eaten by a large variety of vertebrates, most of which appear to be fig seed dispersers rather than seed predators; (c) minute seeds despite the adults’ long-lived woody life form; (d) exceptionally numerous congeners in almost any mainland tropical forest habitat; (e) every woody life-form (deciduous, evergreen;tree, strangler, epiphyte, vine, scandent shrub, bush); (f) intra-population inter-tree asynchronous flowering and fruiting in many habitats, yet strong intra-tree synchronous flowering and fruiting; (g) heavy outcrossed pollination even when the density of flowering conspecifics is extremely low; (h)no inter-specific competition for pollinators within a habitat irrespective of the number of Ficus species present and the timing of sexual reproduction;(i) heavy visitation of fruiting crowns by seed dispersers even when the density of conspecifics is extremely low; and (j) over 50% predispersal seed predation of all seed crops.

There is a voluminous literature on the taxonomy and biology of fig flowers, fig fruits, and fig wasps (see reviews in 1, 9, 16, 20-22, 34-36, 41,47, 52, 86, 90-96, 101, 112, 113), but each author focused on particular aspects of the system. Here I stress interactions among many parts of the system.

Wiebes’ chapter in this volume is the most recent review of the details of the interaction of fig wasps with figs. However, a very brief overview of fig biology is useful here. First, ignore the atypical commercial fig, Ficus carica, since it occupies extra-tropical to sub-tropical habitats, has deciduous lobed leaves and large fruits in many parthenocarpic varieties, is gynodioecious, and has not been studied as a wild plant (11-13, 15, 17). A fig species much more representative of Ficus lives in tropical woody vegetation below 2000 m elevation, is a fast-growing woody plant, and has medium to large stiff oval leaves that are shed synchronously and then immediately replaced once a year (giving the illusion of being “evergreen”even in deciduous forest habitats). The bark is smooth, gray, and epiphyte-poor, and the trunk is fluted or otherwise contorted. Buttresses and surface roots are prominent. All above-ground parts (including immature fruits) are permeated near the surface with vessels (lactifers) containing white latex that in turn contains the powerful protease, ficin, among other defensive compounds (107). Fig trees have a small fauna of leaf-eating insects but are not generally subject to massive defoliation by leaf cutter ants or caterpillars.As often as twice a year, a tree produces a crop of 500-l,000,000 l-5 cm diameter fruits (called “syconia” in other literature), each containing l00-1000 seeds. The small green fruits are borne on short peduncles in the leaf axils. They are entered through a scale-occluded pore (ostiole) by one or a few minute pollen-bearing wasps of the family Agaonidae. These wasps pollinate the hundreds of single-ovuled florets inside the monoecious fruit and lay one egg in each of many of the ovaries, reaching the ovary by inserting the oviposit or down the style. A wasp larva eats the developing seed and lives inside the seed coat. The plant therefore pays 50% or more of its offspring for out crossing services. A month or so later, the wingless male wasps emerge and then mate with the females through holes they have cut in the sides of the ovaries. Since only one or a few pollinating wasps oviposit in one fruit, many matings are brother with sister. The winged females then emerge from the seed coat and pack pollen from newly dehisced anthers into recesses of the body to be carried off to another con-specific fig tree that bears fruit in the small green receptive stage. Females leave through a tunnel cut by the males in the wall of the nearly full-sized fig, or (rarely) through an expanded ostiole. Other minute wasps (parasitic Hymenoptera in the Agaonidae and Torymidae) parasitize fig seeds, fig wasps, or the combination, and oviposit either the same way the pollinators do or through the fig fruit wall. In gynodioecious species of Ficus (all Old World), some individuals or seasonal morphs bear fruits containing only florets with styles too long to allow the wasp to oviposit in the ovaries. The female wasps therefore pollinate the florets, but no seeds are lost to the wasps and no wasps are produced. Monoecious trees of these species tend to have a very high rate of fig-wasp seed predation and therefore act functionally as males. Various moth (Pyralidae) and weevil (Curculionidae)larvae prey on the developing seeds in maturing figs. The figs newly vacated by the pollinating wasps ripen rapidly and are avidly eaten by many species of vertebrates. These digest the fruit wall and the florets from which the wasps have exited, but the seeds undamaged by the wasps usually survive the trip through the gut. Apparently only Treron fruit pigeons and small parrots intensely prey on, as well as disperse, intact fig seeds. Mature seeds are also heavily preyed on by lygaeid bugs. Mature fig trees are most common in moderately disturbed sites such as riparian edges, tree crowns(as epiphytes), tree falls, secondary agricultural regeneration, and old land-slides. Their lifespans are unknown, but probably do not exceed several hundred years in the wild state.Such a natural history brings to mind many questions in population biology. This review is an effort to locate manageable questions, rather than to summarize an extensive body of information. I believe that at this stage in tropical biology it is more appropriate to try to make a few well-known systems better understood than to concentrate on the discovery of new systems (68).